rework themeregistry to be configured by a builder (#6)
Assorted-Development/winforms-themes: README.md

# ToC
* [WinForms Themes](#winforms-themes)
  * [License](#license)
  * [Development](#development)
  * [Usage](#usage)
  * [Extended Usage](#extended-usage)
  * [Contributions](#contributions)

## Development

### Test Coverage
First, install the reportgenerator tool:
```
dotnet tool install -g dotnet-reportgenerator-globaltool
```

The test coverage report can then be created using:
```
rmdir /s /q WinFormsThemes\TestProject\TestResults

> dotnet test WinFormsThemes/TestProject --no-build --verbosity normal --collect:"XPlat Code Coverage"

Author: done

reportgenerator -reports:WinFormsThemes\TestProject\TestResults\*\coverage.cobertura.xml -targetdir:WinFormsThemes\TestProject\TestResults\html -reporttypes:Html -sourcedirs:WinFormsThemes\WinFormsThemes
start "" WinFormsThemes\TestProject\TestResults\html\index.html
```

## Usage

> To use this project, you need to add a reference to our nuget package (`dotnet add package AssortedDevelopment.WinFormsThemes`) first.

Author: No, I don't think so: We expect the user to use nuget which clearly states the supported .NET version complains about conflicts.

> To use this project, you need to add a reference to our nuget package (`dotnet add package AssortedDevelopment.WinFormsThemes`) first.

Reviewer: But if someone just stumbles about the repository, we might avoid disappointments? 😏

Next, you need to configure the themes:
```csharp

> IThemeRegistry.BUILDER.Build();

Reviewer: (I'm just adding all thoughts here since this seems like a nice, central place for it)   
Another thought: It seems unintuitive to me to `Build()` something and not use its return value.  
The ThemeRegistry gets built, added to a magical ThemeRegistryHolder you have to know about and suddenly it's the current global registry just because you've built it (and maybe you've not even had the intention to override the ThemeRegistry).  
Counter idea: You have to build the theme, explicitly add it to a ThemeRegistry (can be the global one from the holder) and then can apply it. This way, you know exactly what happens when you're reading the code and you still don't have to build/create the theme in every form you want to apply it to.

Author: You mean like `ThemeRegistryHolder.ThemeRegistry = IThemeRegistry.BUILDER.Build();` and `ThemeRegistryHolder.ThemeRegistry.Current = ThemeRegistryHolder.ThemeRegistry.Get()`?

I have no real issues with it, I just wanted to provide easier support for the standard usecase (only one ThemeRegistry, only one theme per application)

Reviewer: Yup, something like this would be what I've meant. Another variant could be
```csharp
ThemeRegistryHolder.ThemeRegistry = IThemeRegistry.BUILDER.Build();
ThemeRegistryHolder.ThemeRegistry.SetCurrent(ThemeRegistryHolder.ThemeRegistry)
```
or 
```csharp
[...]
ThemeRegistryHolder.ThemeRegistry.Change(ThemeRegistryHolder.ThemeRegistry)
```
(or something similar, whatever you see fit 😄)  
  
I understand what you mean by providing an easy use case for standard scenarios, but I think this would ultimately lead to more confusion that it would solve.

Author: Okay, as we use a property for the `ThemeRegistry`, I would also use this for the `ThemeRegistryHolder` if this is alright with you

Reviewer: Sounds good 👍🏽

> IThemeRegistry.BUILDER.Build();

Author: > Would implementing this in the ThemeRegistry class have any big disadvantages I'm currently not seeing?

This just makes it worse because you create a dependency from the user side to the internal class `ThemeRegistry`. As it currently is, the builder can create any implementation of `IThemeRegistry`. In your usecase, you would have different builders for eachg implementation and the user would have to know which implementation they want to use.

> IThemeRegistry.BUILDER.Build();

Reviewer: > In your usecase, you would have different builders for each implementation and the user would have to know which implementation they want to use

But couldn't this be the case now as well? Not only do you have a default implementation you might not expect, it can be overwritten by any implementation without you really noticing it as end user.

> IThemeRegistry.BUILDER.Build();

Author: In my opinion, the user expects a certain functionality (e.g. get themes from file) as configured by the builder. As long as the functionality matches, the implementation class is just an implementation detail. In theory, we could detect something like the Windows Version and return a `DefaultThemeRegistry` or an `LegacyWindowsThemeRegistry` which does not access native methods that do not exist in earlier OS versions.
We could even restructure the code behind the interface as long as we adhere to said interface definition

```

> This uses the default settings to lookup the themes and register the theme in the `ThemeRegistryHolder`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can, for example, be placed in the `Program.cs` of your application and uses the default settings to lookup the themes and register the theme in the `ThemeRegistryHolder`.
```

> At last, you need to add a single line in the `OnLoad` in all forms to be themed:

Reviewer: _Did you mean:_
```suggestion
At last, you need to add a single line in the `Load` event of all forms to be themed:
```

### Customize theme selection
By default, our library will honor the settings of the operating system in regard to dark mode and high contrast. If you want to add additional selection criteria or you want to give the user an option to override this selection you can do that easily.

> Instead of relying on the default settings in `IThemeRegistry.Get()` which is implicitly called by `IThemeRegistry.Current` when no current theme was set you can set `IThemeRegistry.Current` to any theme you want:

Author: You mean about setting the `Current` Property? No, it is not required by the library - it is just a place to provide the current theme globally.

> Instead of relying on the default settings in `IThemeRegistry.Get()` which is implicitly called by `IThemeRegistry.Current` when no current theme was set you can set `IThemeRegistry.Current` to any theme you want:

Reviewer: In this case, I think the docs can be a bit misleading, especially when used as reference document by someone who doesn't fully understand what's happening when he uses another implementation of IThemeRegistry, don't you?

> Instead of relying on the default settings in `IThemeRegistry.Get()` which is implicitly called by `IThemeRegistry.Current` when no current theme was set you can set `IThemeRegistry.Current` to any theme you want:

Author: Do you have a suggestion how to make this more clear?

> Instead of relying on the default settings in `IThemeRegistry.Get()` which is implicitly called by `IThemeRegistry.Current` when no current theme was set you can set `IThemeRegistry.Current` to any theme you want:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of relying on the default settings in `IThemeRegistry.Get()` (which is, in our default implementation `ThemeRegistry` at least, implicitly called and used by `ThemeRegistry.Current` in case no current theme was set yet) you can set `IThemeRegistry.Current` to any theme you want:
```

Maybe like this? Still not ideal, but I think at least a bit more clear.

> Instead of relying on the default settings in `IThemeRegistry.Get()` which is implicitly called by `IThemeRegistry.Current` when no current theme was set you can set `IThemeRegistry.Current` to any theme you want:

Author: Is this obsolete now as `Current` is not set automatically? Please check the updated docs

> Instead of relying on the default settings in `IThemeRegistry.Get()` which is implicitly called by `IThemeRegistry.Current` when no current theme was set you can set `IThemeRegistry.Current` to any theme you want:

Reviewer: I think so, yes. I'd mark this resolved, then.

        }
    }
```
At last, you just need to register it for the correct type:
```csharp
 IThemeRegistry.BUILDER
     .AddThemePlugin<MyCustomControl>(new MyCustomControlThemePlugin())
     .Build();
```

> **Note: Currently, we only support directly registered types. Subclasses will not be styled!**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note: Currently, we only support directly registered types. Subclasses will not be styled automatically!**
```
